The first thing we need to do is download a CentOS VDI, or virtual disk
image.  Open up a web browser and visit, LinuxTrainingAcademy.com/vdi.  Click
on the CentOS 7 VDI download link.  This is a rather large file so this will take
several minutes to download.
Once the download is completed, we need to extract
the contents of the archive.  First you're going to navigate to the folder where
you saved the download. This is typically your downloads folder.  I'm on a mac, so
I'm going to double click on the archive to extract its contents.  Remember
that this process was covered in an earlier video, one for Mac users and
another video for Windows users.
Once the contents of the archive have been extracted,
we'll start the virtual box application.
Next, create a new container or virtual machine
for our CentOS operating system installation.
You can see here that it asks you for a few bits of information.
The name, the type, and
the version.
I'm going to name it centosdesktop.
As I typed that
in, virtualbox automatically selected Linux as the type and RedHat as the
version.
If it didn't, we could simply use the dropdown boxes and make the
appropriate selections.
The minimum amount of ram recommended is 1024
MB or 1 GB.
I have plenty of RAM to use on my system, so I'm going to
dedicated about half of my resources to this virtual machine.  So, I'll use 8192
MB or 8 gigabytes.
Choose "an existing virtual hard drive file"
Click the folder icon, and navigate to where you extracted the virtual
disk image.  This will probably be in your downloads
folder.  Click on open and then click create.
Let's power on the virtual machine by clicking on the virtual machine
and then clicking on the start button at the top. You can also right-click and click start there,
either way is fine.
Once CentOS is booted up you'll be presented with a login screen.
To log in as the adminuser, click on that username.  Now enter in the password,
which is also adminuser.
By the way, the username and password for the system will be supplied with
the disk image.  So if you happen to use different disk image, look for the
username and password combination that works with that particular image.
The first time you log in you'll be asked a couple of questions to complete the
setup for the account.
Now that we see everything works,
I'm going to shutdown the system by clicking
in the top right hand corner and clicking on the power button.
Now you can use this Linux installation to complete this course and practice your Linux skills.